docs[confluent]: add docs for new confluent plugin (#7773)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/confluent/overview/_index.md

---
nav_title: Overview
---

With Kafka at its core, [Confluent](https://confluent.io) offers complete, fully managed, cloud-native data streaming that's available everywhere your data and applications reside.

<!-- I modified this a bit to point to Apacha  Kafka installations -->

> Kong also provides a Kafka Log as well as Kafka Upstream plugin for publishing logs and messages to a Apache Kafka topic.
> 
> * See [Kafka Log](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-log/)
> * See [Kafka Upstream](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong also provides Kafka Log and Kafka Upstream plugins for publishing logs and messages to an Apache Kafka topic:

* [Kafka Log](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-log/)
* [Kafka Upstream](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/)
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> 

Reviewer: Can this plugin only run on service-less routes? If so, we should add a note here:

```suggestion

{:.note}
> **Note**: This plugin must be enabled on a service-less route. 

```
And explain why you can't use a service.

Reviewer 2: It was just an example, I rewrote it in a way that doesn't mention the service-less part. I can be enabled on a route with a service or on a service, one caveat is that when the plugin is enabled, the URL of the service is ignored because the plugin sends a kafka message to the configured server/cluster. Worth adding a note about that?

Reviewer: >  one caveat is that when the plugin is enabled, the URL of the service is ignored because the plugin sends a kafka message to the configured server/cluster. Worth adding a note about that?

Definitely :)

> ## Known issues and limitations
> 
> Known limitations:
> 
> 1. Message compression is not supported.
> 2. The message format is not customizable.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{:.note} 
> **Note**: This plugin has the following known limitations:
> * Message compression is not supported.
> * The message format is not customizable.

```
Let's reformat this a bit.

> ## Enable on a service-less route
> 
> ```bash
> curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/routes/my-route/plugins \
>     --data "name=confluent" \
>     --data "config.bootstrap_servers[1].host=localhost" \
>     --data "config.bootstrap_servers[1].port=9092" \
>     --data "config.cluster_api_key=my-api-key" \
>     --data "config.cluster_api_secret=my-api-secret" \
>     --data "config.topic=my-confluent-topic" \
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is a repeat of the quickstart, you don't need this.

Reviewer 2: Removed

## Known issues and limitations

Known limitations:

1. Message compression is not supported.
2. The message format is not customizable.

## Quickstart

> The following steps assume that {{site.base_gateway}} is installed and the Confluent plugin is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```
The following steps don't assume that the plugin is enabled 🤔 there is specifically a step to enable the plugin.

Follow the links to Confluent's documentation site to:
1. [Create a Kafka cluster in Confluent Cloud](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/get-started/index.html#step-1-create-a-ak-cluster-in-ccloud)
2. [Create a Kafka topic in the cluster](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/get-started/index.html#step-2-create-a-ak-topic)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Generate API key

```

To authorize access from the plugin to your cluster, you need to generate an API Key and secret.

> In the *Kafka credentials* pane, leave *Global access* selected, and click *Generate API key & download*. This creates an API key and secret that allows the plugin to access your cluster, and downloads the key and secret to your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the **Kafka credentials** pane, leave **Global access** selected, and click **Generate API key & download**. This creates an API key and secret that allows the plugin to access your cluster, and downloads the key and secret to your computer.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Enable the Confluent plugin

```

> Enable the plugin on a service-less route with the following command, replacing the placeholder values with the appropriate values for topic, cluster API key and cluster API secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the plugin on a service-less route with the following command, replacing the placeholder values with the appropriate values for topic, cluster API key, and cluster API secret:
```

Reviewer 2: I removed the mention to service-less and adjusted the order of the values, fixed the missing last comma in the new list

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/routes/my-route/plugins \
    --data "name=confluent" \
    --data "config.bootstrap_servers[1].host=localhost" \
    --data "config.bootstrap_servers[1].port=9092" \
    --data "config.cluster_api_key=my-api-key" \
    --data "config.cluster_api_secret=my-api-secret" \
    --data "config.topic=my-confluent-topic" \
```

You can make a sample request with:

    ``` bash
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8000 --header 'Host: confluent.dev' foo=bar

>     ```

Reviewer: You don't need to indent this code block.

Reviewer 2: Done

You should receive a `200 { message: "message sent" }` response.

> To check that the message has been added to the topic in the Confluent Cloud console:
> 1. From the navigation menu, select *Topics* to show the list of topics in your cluster.
> 2. Select the topic you sent messages to.
> 3. In the topic detail page, select the *Messages* tab to view the messages being produced to the topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Validate in Confluent

To check that the message has been added to the topic in the Confluent Cloud console:
1. From the console's navigation menu, select **Topics** to show the list of topics in your cluster.
2. Select the topic you sent messages to.
3. In the topic detail page, select the **Messages** tab to view the messages being produced to the topic.
```

Reviewer 2: Done
